docs/projects/cbrms.md, before:

# CBRMS - Community-Based Resource Management System
## Overview

A comprehensive Community-Based Resource Management System (CBRMS) built with Laravel framework. This system facilitates efficient management of community resources, member coordination, and administrative oversight for community-driven organizations and local governance.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Resource Management:** Track and manage community assets, facilities, and equipment
- **Member Directory:** Comprehensive community member database and profiles  
- **Event Coordination:** Community event planning, scheduling, and management
- **Financial Tracking:** Budget management and community fund administration
- **Communication Hub:** Internal messaging and community announcements
- **Reporting System:** Generate reports on resource usage and community activities
- **Role-Based Access:** Multi-level user permissions for different community roles
- **Document Management:** Store and organize community documents and policies

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Primary Technologies
- **Framework:** Laravel (PHP Framework)
- **Backend:** PHP (93.9%)
- **Frontend:** CSS (3.0%), JavaScript (2.4%), Blade (0.3%)
- **Database:** MySQL with Laravel Eloquent ORM
- **Additional:** Hack (0.4%) for enhanced functionality

### Laravel Architecture
- **MVC Pattern:** Model-View-Controller architecture
- **Eloquent ORM:** Database relationships and migrations
- **Blade Templating:** Dynamic view rendering
- **RESTful APIs:** Clean API structure for data operations
- **Authentication:** Multi-role authentication system

## 📂 Project Information

### Repository Details
- **GitHub:** https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS
- **Primary Language:** PHP
- **Languages:** PHP (93.9%), CSS (3.0%), JavaScript (2.4%), Hack (0.4%), Blade (0.3%)
- **Last Updated:** 26/12/2023
- **Repository Size:** ~81MB

### Project Status
- **Status:** ✅ Active
- **Visibility:** 🌐 Public
- **Category:** Community Management System
- **Tags:** #laravel #php #community-management #resource-management #web-application

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- PHP 8.0 or higher
- Composer for dependency management
- MySQL 5.7 or higher
- Web server (Apache/Nginx)
- Node.js and npm for frontend assets

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS.git
   cd CBRMS
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   composer install
   npm install
   ```

3. **Environment configuration**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   php artisan key:generate
   ```

4. **Database setup**
   ```bash
   # Configure database credentials in .env
   php artisan migrate
   php artisan db:seed
   ```

5. **Compile frontend assets**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   php artisan serve
   ```

## 🏘️ Community Management Features

### Resource Management
- **Asset Inventory:** Track community equipment, facilities, and resources
- **Booking System:** Schedule and manage resource reservations
- **Maintenance Logs:** Record maintenance activities and schedules
- **Usage Analytics:** Monitor resource utilization patterns

### Member Management
- **Member Profiles:** Comprehensive member information and contact details
- **Role Assignment:** Define community roles and responsibilities
- **Skill Directory:** Track member skills and expertise for project matching
- **Communication Preferences:** Manage member notification settings

### Administrative Tools
- **Dashboard Analytics:** Overview of community activities and metrics
- **Financial Management:** Track community funds, expenses, and budgets
- **Event Calendar:** Community event planning and coordination
- **Document Library:** Centralized storage for community documents

## 👥 User Roles & Permissions

### Community Roles
- **Administrator:** Full system access and community oversight
- **Coordinator:** Manage events, resources, and member coordination
- **Member:** Access to community resources and participation in activities
- **Guest:** Limited access to public community information

### Permission System
- **Resource Access:** Role-based resource booking and management
- **Financial Control:** Restricted access to financial data and transactions
- **Administrative Functions:** Limited to authorized community leaders
- **Communication Rights:** Controlled messaging and announcement capabilities

## 👥 Contributors

- **Lead Developer:** [Syed Salman Reza](https://github.com/syed-reza98)
- **Community Input:** Based on real community management requirements
- **Framework:** Laravel by Taylor Otwell

## 📄 Documentation & Links

- **Repository:** [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS)
- **Laravel Documentation:** [Official Laravel Docs](https://laravel.com/docs)
- **Community Management:** Best practices for community resource coordination

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve community management features:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch for community enhancements
3. Follow Laravel coding standards
4. Test thoroughly with community use cases
5. Submit pull request with detailed description

Areas for contribution:
- Enhanced reporting features
- Mobile-responsive improvements
- Integration with external community tools
- Advanced analytics and insights

---

**Created:** December 26, 2023  
**Last Updated:** September 30, 2025  
**Focus:** Community Resource Management

## Code & Repository

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS
- **Primary Language:** PHP
- **Languages:** PHP (93.9%), CSS (3.0%), JavaScript (2.4%), Hack (0.4%), Blade (0.3%)
- **Last Updated:** 26/12/2023
- **Repository Size:** ~81MB

## Architecture & Tech Stack

- **Technology Stack:** JavaScript/Node.js, Laravel Framework
- **Architecture:** REST API

## Project Status

- **Status:** ✅ Active
- **Visibility:** 🔐 Private

## Development Notes

- For detailed setup instructions, refer to the [repository README](https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS#readme)
- Contributing guidelines and project documentation available in the repository

Commit message:

Rename CBRMS and update key features
Updated the project name and key features to reflect the Cheque Bureau Requisition Management System.

docs/projects/cbrms.md, after:

# CBRMS - Cheque Bureau Requisition Management System
## Overview

A comprehensive Cheque Bureau Requisition Management System (CBRMS) built with Laravel framework. This system facilitates efficient management of community resources, member coordination, and administrative oversight for community-driven organizations and local governance.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Resource Management:** Track and manage Cheque requisitions, assets, facilities, and equipment
- **Branch Directory:** Comprehensive branch profiles
- **Reporting System:** Generate templates on requisition and printable data
- **Role-Based Access:** Multi-level user permissions for different community role

## 🛠️ Technology Stack

### Primary Technologies
- **Framework:** Laravel (PHP Framework)
- **Backend:** PHP (93.9%)
- **Frontend:** CSS (3.0%), JavaScript (2.4%), Blade (0.3%)
- **Database:** MySQL with Laravel Eloquent ORM
- **Additional:** Hack (0.4%) for enhanced functionality

### Laravel Architecture
- **MVC Pattern:** Model-View-Controller architecture
- **Eloquent ORM:** Database relationships and migrations
- **Blade Templating:** Dynamic view rendering
- **RESTful APIs:** Clean API structure for data operations
- **Authentication:** Multi-role authentication system

## 📂 Project Information

### Repository Details
- **GitHub:** https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS
- **Primary Language:** PHP
- **Languages:** PHP (93.9%), CSS (3.0%), JavaScript (2.4%), Hack (0.4%), Blade (0.3%)
- **Last Updated:** 26/12/2023
- **Repository Size:** ~81MB

### Project Status
- **Status:** ✅ Active
- **Visibility:** 🌐 Public
- **Category:** Community Management System
- **Tags:** #laravel #php #community-management #resource-management #web-application

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- PHP 8.0 or higher
- Composer for dependency management
- MySQL 5.7 or higher
- Web server (Apache/Nginx)
- Node.js and npm for frontend assets

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS.git
   cd CBRMS
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   composer install
   npm install
   ```

3. **Environment configuration**
   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   php artisan key:generate
   ```

4. **Database setup**
   ```bash
   # Configure database credentials in .env
   php artisan migrate
   php artisan db:seed
   ```

5. **Compile frontend assets**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

6. **Run the application**
   ```bash
   php artisan serve
   ```

## 🏘️ Community Management Features

### Resource Management
- **Asset Inventory:** Track community equipment, facilities, and resources
- **Booking System:** Schedule and manage resource reservations
- **Maintenance Logs:** Record maintenance activities and schedules
- **Usage Analytics:** Monitor resource utilization patterns

### Member Management
- **Member Profiles:** Comprehensive member information and contact details
- **Role Assignment:** Define community roles and responsibilities
- **Skill Directory:** Track member skills and expertise for project matching
- **Communication Preferences:** Manage member notification settings

### Administrative Tools
- **Dashboard Analytics:** Overview of community activities and metrics
- **Financial Management:** Track community funds, expenses, and budgets
- **Event Calendar:** Community event planning and coordination
- **Document Library:** Centralized storage for community documents

## 👥 User Roles & Permissions

### Community Roles
- **Administrator:** Full system access and community oversight
- **Coordinator:** Manage events, resources, and member coordination
- **Member:** Access to community resources and participation in activities
- **Guest:** Limited access to public community information

### Permission System
- **Resource Access:** Role-based resource booking and management
- **Financial Control:** Restricted access to financial data and transactions
- **Administrative Functions:** Limited to authorized community leaders
- **Communication Rights:** Controlled messaging and announcement capabilities

## 👥 Contributors

- **Lead Developer:** [Syed Salman Reza](https://github.com/syed-reza98)
- **Community Input:** Based on real community management requirements
- **Framework:** Laravel by Taylor Otwell

## 📄 Documentation & Links

- **Repository:** [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS)
- **Laravel Documentation:** [Official Laravel Docs](https://laravel.com/docs)
- **Community Management:** Best practices for community resource coordination

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions to improve community management features:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch for community enhancements
3. Follow Laravel coding standards
4. Test thoroughly with community use cases
5. Submit pull request with detailed description

Areas for contribution:
- Enhanced reporting features
- Mobile-responsive improvements
- Integration with external community tools
- Advanced analytics and insights

---

**Created:** December 26, 2023  
**Last Updated:** September 30, 2025  
**Focus:** Community Resource Management

## Code & Repository

- **GitHub:** https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS
- **Primary Language:** PHP
- **Languages:** PHP (93.9%), CSS (3.0%), JavaScript (2.4%), Hack (0.4%), Blade (0.3%)
- **Last Updated:** 26/12/2023
- **Repository Size:** ~81MB

## Architecture & Tech Stack

- **Technology Stack:** JavaScript/Node.js, Laravel Framework
- **Architecture:** REST API

## Project Status

- **Status:** ✅ Active
- **Visibility:** 🔐 Private

## Development Notes

- For detailed setup instructions, refer to the [repository README](https://github.com/syed-reza98/CBRMS#readme)
- Contributing guidelines and project documentation available in the repository
